
                                     ****************
                                     * GRAPH-TI.TXT *
                                     ****************

ABOUT GRAPH-TI.TXT

This file contains information about the graphics calculator e-mail
interest group.  It tells how educators can join and use this network,
where they can exchange information and programs for graphing calculators,
including many programs for the TI-85.  To print this file, enter 
PRINT drv:GRAPH-TI.TXT from the DOS prompt on your PC.

***Note: The information in this file was current as of October 1992.
If you have difficulty accessing any of the e-mail addresses, call
1-800-TI-CARES for an update of the information.

GRAPHICS CALCULATOR INTEREST GROUP AVAILABLE BY E-MAIL

The Mathematics Department of The Ohio State University is pleased to
announce the formation of an electronic mail (e-mail) interest group for
educators and other users of graphics calculators.

Internet mailing lists work by providing an easy method to send e-mail to
all other members of the interest group.  The mail may be an idea, a
question, or the response to a question.  Long discussions on a topic often
take place and all members can "listen" to the e-mail conversation and
benefit from it.

The list is available to anyone with access to electronic mail on Internet,
BITNET, and connected networks.  Most colleges and universities have this
access and an increasing number of secondary schools have this access or
are getting it.

This list was conceived to allow users of Texas Instruments graphics
calculators to share ideas and solve problems together.  It is provided by
the Mathematics Department of The Ohio State University with support from
Texas Instruments Incorporated.

Users of the list will discuss such things as:
  - Applications of graphics calculators in math, science, and engineering
  - Sources of additional information
  - Instructional issues using graphics calculators

To sign up for the mailing list send an e-mail message (note that file 
names are case-sensative):

  TO: LISTSERV@OHSTVMA.BITNET  (or use LISTSERV@OHSTVMA.ACS.OHIO-STATE.EDU) 
  Subject: (not necessary, ignored)
  Contents: SUBSCRIBE GRAPH-TI firstname lastname

If you are unsure about e-mail at your school or if you are a new user of
e-mail, see your computer coordinator or an expert user in your area for
help.  If you are an e-mail user but have some difficulty, please contact
Ohio State or Texas Instruments at the following e-mail addresses:

  Ohio State University: waitsb@function.mps.ohio-state.edu
  Texas Instruments:     support@cpdvax.csc.ti.com

Many secondary school teachers without e-mail have found that a local
college or university can be very cooperative about providing that service
for local teachers.

DATA EXCHANGE VIA GRAPH-TI

What else can you do with GRAPH-TI?

GRAPH-TI has, in addition to its running dialogue of various topics, an
archive of TI-85 programs and data that have been submitted to GRAPH-TI.
Below is a description of the extra functions available from GRAPH-TI.

To receive instructions on using GRAPH-TI, send an e-mail message:

  TO: GRAPH-TI@function.mps.ohio-state.edu
  Subject: (not necessary, ignored)
  Contents: HELP

To receive a list of all the TI-85 data files available from GRAPH-TI,
including a two-line abstract of each file, send an e-mail message:

  TO: GRAPH-TI@function.mps.ohio-state.edu
  Subject: (not necessary, ignored)
  Contents: LIST

To receive a short list of all the TI-85 data files available from GRAPH-TI
(a list that does not include the two-line abstract), send an e-mail message:

  TO: GRAPH-TI@function.mps.ohio-state.edu
  Subject: (not necessary, ignored)
  Contents: LIST SHORT

To receive a specific file from the GRAPH-TI list of available files, send
an e-mail message (note that file names and extensions are case sensitive):

  TO: GRAPH-TI@function.mps.ohio-state.edu
  Subject: (not necessary, ignored)
  Contents: GET filename

To submit a file to GRAPH-TI for others to use, send an e-mail message:

  TO: GRAPH-TI@function.mps.ohio-state.edu
  Subject: (not necessary, ignored)
  Contents: PUT filename <file body>

GUIDELINES FOR SUBMITTING TI-85 FILES TO GRAPH-TI

The file body must include a UUE-format version of the TI-85 file (see
FREEWARE.TXT on this disk).  Submitted data files will be "checked" by the 
GRAPH-TI operator and then manually transferred to the archive, where the 
contents are available via the LIST command described above.
